                 Git and Github Assignment




       1. What is Git?

          Git is a free and open source distributed version control system
          designed to handle everything from small to large projects with 
          speed and efficiency. The version control allows us to track and 
          work together with our team members at the same workspace.



       2. What do you understand by the term “Version Control System”?

          Version control also known as source control, is the practice of 
          tracking and managing changes to software code. It is serves
          as a safety net to protect the source code from irreparable harm
          giving the development team the freedom to experiment without
          fear of causing damage or creating code conflicts.



       3. What is Github?
          
          A Github can be divided into the Git and Hub. the services includes
          access controls as well as a number of collaboration features like 
          tools for basic task management. Github hosts your source code
          projects in a variety of different programming languages and keeps 
          track of the various changes made to every iteration.



       4. Mention some popular Git hosting services?

          Some Git hosting services are : 
                                      1. Bitbucket
                                      2. Github
                                      3. Gitlab
                                      4. Beanstalk
                                      5. Codebase
                                      6. AWS codecommit 



       5. Different types of version control systems?

          There are two types of version control system
           1.  Centralized version control system(CVCS)
           2.  Distributed version control system(DVCS).



       6. What benefits come with using Git?

          Benefits with using git are : 
                               1. Branching capabilities
                               2. Free and open-source
                               3. Fast and Small
                               4. Security
                               5. Implicit backup



       7. What is a Git repository?

          A Git repository is a central storage location for managing and 
          tracking changes in files and directories. It is a crucial component
          of the Git version control system, which enables collaborative
          development and allows multiple developers to work on a project 
          simultaneously.



       8. How can you initialize a repository in Git?

          In Git repository to create a new repo, you'll use the git init
          command. git init is a one time command you use during the initial
          setup of a new repo. Executing this command will create a new '.git'
          subdirectory in your current working directory. this will also create
          a new main branch. 




